---
layout: archive
title: "Feel free to take my application documents as a sample, especially for those with similar backgrounds. I hope these can help your application too."
permalink: /cv/
author_profile: true
redirect_from:
  - /resume
---

Statement of Purpose - UCDavis
=============
I aspire to pursue a PhD degree in the area of Wireless Communication and Networking. My long-term goal is to become a researcher in the laboratory of a high-tech company with an aspiration to completely reform the way we connect with the world. I believe I can reach this goal with graduate training in the ECE department of UCDavis.

As a research assistant, I have co-authored several papers in top journals/conferences, including IEEE Transactions on Multimedia, IEEE Access, IEEE GLOBECOM, IEEE ICC and IEEE VTC. My motivation for wireless research comes from a major life event. I had undergone lung surgery in my junior year. During my hospitalization, whenever my mobile phone ran out of battery, I had a hard time untangling the charging cords due to the drainage tube on my chest. This sparked my interest in developing more convenient wireless technologies.

To delve deeper into wireless research, I joined Prof. Hung-Yu Wei’s Wireless Mobile Network Lab. My first research project focused on cache-enabled adaptive video streaming. Through studying the literature, I found the social impact of online users has huge potentials to enhance the hit ratio of video cache, thus enhancing Quality of Experience (QoE). I also found that due to different playback request patterns and downlink capacity of mobile users, videos can be partially cached and be transcoded in real-time to improve resource utilization and adapt to the fast-changing channel condition. By integrating the above findings, I designed a social-aware and QoE-driven video cache framework to improve existing video streaming schemes. Combining my proficiency in programming, I further conduct a series of experiments based on real-world data to validate my proposed framework.

My second study aims to address the task offloading problem in UAV-assisted vehicular networks, which is NP-hard in general. I found that current algorithms often take a long time to obtain a decent solution and thus fail to fulfill the latency requirements of emerging vehicular services regarding their high mobility. By taking advantage of both Deep Neural Network (DNN) and Particle Swarm Optimization (PSO), I developed a hybrid learning framework that can jointly optimize UAV positions, computation offloading decision and spectrum resource allocation in Radio Access Network (RAN) with low-complexity while dynamically tuning the DNN in order to adapt to the time-varying wireless environment.

After completing the above challenging topics, I turned to collaborate on a survey paper with the topic of service orchestration and resource management for edge computing. After surveying over 350 papers from various aspects, I have identified the limitations of existing techniques and outlined potential research directions. Meanwhile, as Network Function Virtualization (NFV) and Software-Defined Network (SDN) become a promising paradigm for 5G core networks, I also collaborated with Prof. Chun-Ting Chou on the mathematical model design of virtual network embedding system and reliable QoS flow routing. These experiences have laid the rigor foundation for my research methodology and provided me with profound insights into research.

Highly attracted by the research of your esteemed faculties, I would like to apply for your prestigious PhD program. Specifically, Prof. Chen-Nee Chuah‘s studies on online social networks, mobile computing and SDN match my research interest perfectly. Prof. Zhi Ding’s expertise on the MIMO system and digital wireless network design unveils the essence of wireless technologies that I’m pursuing. I also found Prof. S.J. Ben Yoo’s research on optical networks and high-performance routing appealing as it serves as a promising solution to realize future wireless networks. I believe working with them can equip me with the latest knowledge required to achieve my aspiration. I also believe that both my strong academic ability and research passion will make me a suitable candidate for admission.


Personal History Statement - UCDavis
=============
I was born into a single-parent family. Because our family has a large debt to pay, my mother was busy with her work and came home late every day. Ever since I can remember, she always hopes I can be admitted to a prestigious university and find a decent job. At the time, I didn’t have any specific goal. All I knew was to get a high score in each exam so that I can compete with others. Therefore, I spent most of my childhood studying. Living up to my mother’s expectation, I was admitted to the best university in Taiwan with a ranking in the top 0.7% of the national college entrance examination. However, what I didn't expect was that this turns out to be the beginning of another fruitful journey.

When I was a freshman, I had a hard time finding my passion and adapting to college life. I had been introverted and not interested in social activities in college. Gradually, I became unable to find my self-identity, and along with it, I was less and less confident in my schoolwork. Feeling frustrated, I decided to change my life by myself. After adjusting my learning attitude, I started to look for subjects that I’m interested in and desire to make contributions.

Having tried various directions, I found interest in programming and planned to become a software engineer. Through taking online courses, I quickly became familiar with common object-oriented languages and had done many side projects on my own. To learn more about enterprise-level software development, I joined Foxconn Advanced Communication Academy for an internship in my sophomore year. During that time, we had collaborated with Intel to develop a commercial platform for managing the 5G network infrastructures. Meanwhile, in order to earn extra money for my family, I also remotely worked with BroadMission on several software projects, including serverless Chatbot, customized CICD tracking tools, and home supervision system. Later, I sought a summer internship at Cinnamon AI to gain more knowledge about deep learning techniques, where I developed object recognition applications.

A major life event has completely changed my career plan as an engineer. I had undergone lung surgery in my junior year. During my hospitalization, whenever my mobile phone ran out of battery, I had difficulty untangling the charging cords due to the drainage tube on my chest. Motivated by this event, I aspire to develop more convenient wireless technologies, making ubiquitous wireless connectivity become a reality. After reflecting on my past experiences, I realize that it requires solving the problem fundamentally, instead of manipulating the well-known tools as I did before, to achieve my aspiration. Thus, I made up my mind to pursue research in the area of wireless networks. Despite my GPA was only 2.28 in the semester in which I was hospitalized, I receive an A in both courses “Introduction to Wireless and Mobile Networking” and “Personal Communications Services” in the following semester.

To delve deeper into wireless research, I joined Prof. Hung-Yu Wei’s Wireless Mobile Network Lab. Though at the beginning I only gave the weekly reports of my literature review, I enjoyed the process of systematic thinking and solving academic problems. As I gained a better understanding of wireless research, I’m more convinced that it is the subject I've been looking for.

I was officially hired as a research assistant in my senior year as the only undergraduate in the Lab. After completing 3 research projects and co-authored 7 papers in top journals/conferences, I would like to continue my research in wireless communication and networking with graduate training. My long-term goal is to become a researcher in the laboratory of a high-tech company so that I can improve the financial status of my family while pursuing my passion. With both distinguished faculties and integrated courses in your department, I believe pursuing my PhD in your prestigious program will be the best choice to achieve my goal.

Statement of Purpose - Virginia Tech
=============
I aspire to pursue a PhD degree in the area of Wireless Communication and Networking. My long-term goal is to become a researcher in the laboratory of a high-tech company with an aspiration to completely reform the way we connect with the world. I believe I can reach this goal with the opportunity and resources provided at the ECE department of Virginia Tech.

Before pursuing wireless research, I had planned to become a software engineer. To learn more about enterprise-level software development, I had joined 3 different companies during college. I first came to Foxconn Advanced Communication Academy for a one-year internship in my sophomore year. During that time, we had collaborated with Intel to develop a commercial platform for the 5G network infrastructures, realizing lifecycle management of network micro services. Meanwhile, I also remotely collaborated with BroadMission on several software projects, including home supervision system with anomaly detection, customized CICD tracking tools, and a serverless Chatbot with user classification and customized responses. Later, I sought summer internship at Cinnamon AI, a start-up found in Tokyo, to further pursue knowledge about deep learning and its real-world applications. From these industrial experiences, I had not only strengthened my programming skills but also boosted my ability to recognize and solve technical problems in software development.

A major life event has completely changed my career plan as an engineer. I had undergone lung surgery in my junior year. During my hospitalization, whenever my mobile phone ran out of battery, I had difficulty untangling the charging cords due to the drainage tube on my chest. Motivated by this event, I aspire to develop more convenient wireless technologies, making ubiquitous wireless connectivity become a reality. After reflecting on my past experiences, I realized it requires solving the problem fundamentally, instead of manipulating the well-known tools as I did before, to achieve my aspiration. Since then, I had made up my mind to pursue research in the area of wireless networks.

Despite my GPA was only 2.28 in the semester in which I was hospitalized, I receive an A in both courses “Introduction to Wireless and Mobile Networking” and “Personal Communications Services” in the following semester. Through these courses, I first learned the principles of radio propagation, channel modeling and multiple access in wireless networks. Then, I become familiar with the key techniques in modern communication systems such as OFDM and beamforming. As I gained a better understanding of wireless research, I’m more convinced that it is my life's ambition.

To delve deeper into wireless technologies, I joined Prof. Hung-Yu Wei’s Wireless Mobile Network Lab. My first research project focused on cache-enabled adaptive video streaming. Through studying the literature, I found the social impact of online users has huge potential to enhance the hit ratio of video cache, thus enhancing Quality of Experience (QoE). I also found that due to different playback request patterns and downlink capacity of mobile users, a video can be partially cached and be transcoded in real-time to improve resource utilization and adapt to the fast-changing channel condition. By integrating the above findings, I developed a social-aware and QoE-driven video cache framework to improve existing video streaming schemes. Combining my proficiency in programming, I further conduct a series of experiments based on real-world data to validate my proposed framework.

My second study aimed to address the task offloading problem in the UAV-assisted vehicular network, which is NP-hard in general. I found that current algorithms often take a long time to obtain a decent solution and thus may fail to fulfill the latency requirements of emerging vehicular services regarding their high mobility. By taking advantage of both Deep Neural Network (DNN) and Particle Swarm Optimization (PSO), I developed a hybrid learning framework that can jointly optimize UAV positions, computation offloading decision and spectrum allocation in Radio Access Network (RAN) with low-complexity while dynamically tuning the DNN in order to adapt to the time-varying wireless environment. From this research, I have established solid expertise in the research
of deep learning with an application to wireless networks.

As an undergraduate member in the collaborative project “B5G smart cross-layer multi-access edge computing”, I have worked on a survey paper with the topic of service orchestration and resource management for edge computing. After analyzing over 350 related papers from various aspects, I have identified the limitations of existing techniques and outlined potential research directions. Meanwhile, as Network Function Virtualization (NFV) and Software-Defined Network (SDN) become a promising paradigm for the 5G core network, I also collaborated with Prof. Chun-Ting Chou on the mathematical model design of virtual network embedding system and reliable QoS flow routing. These experiences have laid the rigor foundation for my research methodology and provided me with profound insights into research.

After completing 3 research projects and co-authored 7 papers in top journals/conferences, including IEEE Transactions on Multimedia, IEEE Access, IEEE GLOBECOM, IEEE ICC and IEEE VTC, I would like to continue my research in wireless communication and networking with graduate training. With both distinguished faculties and integrated courses in your department, pursuing my PhD in your prestigious program will be the best choice for me to achieve my goal.

During graduate school, I’m eager to attend advanced courses to enhance my mathematical background required in wireless research. With the stochastic process and optimization techniques introduced in the courses of “Stochastic Signals and Systems” and “Convex Optimization”, I’m confident that I will be able to model and analyze any problem in the wireless network. Besides, by taking “Multi-Channel Communications” and “Spread Spectrum Communications”, I can acquire sufficient knowledge to address academic challenges in the research of wireless communication.

I’m highly attracted by the research of your esteemed research group, Wireless@Virginia Tech. If possible, I would like to work with Prof. Lingjia Liu, Prof. Harpreet S. Dhillon and Prof. Walid Saad. Specifically, Prof. Liu’s expertise on reservoir computing for the MIMO system, including channel estimation, symbol detection and dynamic spectrum sharing, unveils the essence of wireless technologies that I’m pursuing. In addition, Prof. Dhillon’s recent study on wireless caching and vehicular networks perfectly match my research background. I also found Prof. Saad’s research on UAV communications, federated learning and applications of game theory appealing to me as they serve as critical solutions to realize the emerging 6G network paradigm. I believe working with them can equip me with the latest knowledge required to achieve my aspiration of future wireless networks. I also believe that both my strong academic ability, firm industrious experiences together with my research passion, would make me a suitable candidate for admission.

Statement of Purpose - Georgia Tech
=============
I aspire to pursue a Ph.D. degree in the area of Wireless Communication and Networking. My long-term goal is to become a researcher in the laboratory of a high-tech company with an aspiration to completely reform the way we connect with the world. I believe I can reach this goal with the opportunity and resources provided at the ECE department of XXXX University.

As a research assistant, I have established a solid mathematical background required to address academic challenges in wireless research. Until now, I have completed 3 research projects and co-authored 7 papers in top journals and conferences, including IEEE Transactions on Multimedia, IEEE Access, IEEE GLOBECOM, IEEE ICC, and IEEE VTC. My motivation for wireless research comes from reflections on my past experiences.

When I was a freshman, I had been fascinated by the TV series Silicon Valley and planned to become a software engineer. To learn more about enterprise-level software development, I had joined 3 different companies during college. I first came to Foxconn Advanced Communication Academy for a one-year internship in my sophomore year. During that time, we had collaborated with Intel to develop a commercial platform for the management of 5G network infrastructures. Meanwhile, I also remotely collaborated with BroadMission on several software projects, including home supervision system with anomaly detection, customized CICD tracking tools, and a serverless Chatbot with user classification and customized responses. Later, I sought summer internship at Cinnamon AI, a start-up found in Tokyo, to further pursue knowledge about deep learning and its real-world applications. From these industrial experiences, I had not only strengthened my programming skills but also boosted my ability to recognize and solve technical problems in software development.

A major life event has completely changed my career plan as an engineer. I had undergone lung surgery in my junior year. During my hospitalization, whenever my mobile phone ran out of battery, I had difficulty untangling the charging cords due to the drainage tube on my chest. Motivated by this event, I aspire to develop more convenient wireless technologies, making ubiquitous wireless connectivity become a reality. After reflecting on my work experiences, I realized it requires solving the problem fundamentally, instead of manipulating the well-known tools as I did before, to achieve my aspiration. Since then, I had made up my mind to pursue research in the area of wireless networks.

Despite my GPA was only 2.28 in the semester in which I was hospitalized, I receive an A in both courses “Introduction to Wireless and Mobile Networking” and “Personal Communications Services” in the following semester. Through these courses, I first learned the principles of radio propagation, channel modeling and multiple access in wireless networks. Then, I become familiar with the key techniques in modern communication systems such as OFDM and beamforming. As I gained a better understanding of wireless research, I’m more convinced that it is my life's ambition.

To delve deeper into wireless technologies, I joined Prof. Hung-Yu Wei’s Wireless Mobile Network Lab. My first research project focused on cache-enabled adaptive video streaming. Through studying the literature, I found the social impact of online users has huge potential to enhance the hit ratio of video cache, thus enhancing Quality of Experience (QoE). I also found that due to different playback request patterns and downlink capacity of mobile users, a video can be partially cached and be transcoded in real-time to improve resource utilization and adapt to the fast-changing channel condition. By integrating the above findings, I developed a social-aware and QoE-driven video cache framework to improve existing video streaming schemes. Combining my proficiency in programming, I further conduct a series of experiments based on real-world data to validate my proposed framework.

My second study aimed to address the task offloading problem in the UAV-assisted vehicular network, which is NP-hard in general. I found that current algorithms often take a long time to obtain a decent solution and thus may fail to fulfill the latency requirements of emerging vehicular services regarding their high mobility. To address such challenge, by taking advantage of both Deep Neural Network (DNN) and Particle Swarm Optimization (PSO), I developed a hybrid learning framework that can jointly optimize UAV positions, computation offloading decision and spectrum allocation in Radio Access Network (RAN) with low-complexity while dynamically tuning the DNN in order to adapt to the time-varying wireless environment. From this research, I have acquired sufficient knowledge to pursue research in applications of deep learning to wireless networks.

As an undergraduate member in the collaborative project “B5G smart cross-layer multi-access edge computing”, I have worked on a survey paper with the topic of service orchestration and resource management for edge computing. After analyzing over 350 related papers from various aspects, I have identified the limitations of existing techniques and outlined potential research directions. Meanwhile, as Network Function Virtualization (NFV) and Software-Defined Network (SDN) become a promising paradigm for the 5G core network, I also collaborated with Prof. Chun-Ting Chou on the mathematical model design of virtual network embedding system and reliable QoS flow routing. These experiences have laid the rigor foundation for my research methodology and provided me with profound insights into research.

Highly attracted by the research of your esteemed faculties, I would like to apply for your prestigious PhD program to continue my research in wireless communication. Specifically, Prof. Gordon Stüber’s research in wireless geophone networks and integrated radar and communications system (IRCS) unveils the essence of wireless technologies that I’m pursuing. Prof. Doug Blough’s expertise on Mmwave communication and physical-layer design provides a promising way to realize nextgeneration wireless networks. I also found Prof. Ian F. Akyildiz’s recent study on ultra-massive MIMO systems appealing to me as it serves as a critical solution to deal with emerging 6G applications that have strict requirements on network performances. I believe working with them would equip me with the latest knowledge required to achieve my aspiration of future wireless networks. I also believe that both my strong academic ability, firm industrious experiences together with my research passion, would make me a suitable candidate for admission.